-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about deployments with YAML.
So 09 deployments with YAML.
So as we discussed earlier,
so deployments are nothing, but, again,
deployment is nothing but a super set of replica set.
So we have created a replica set in our previous lecture.
So we are going to copy all those templates
and then change its kind to deployment
and then container image to 3.0.0
for a difference and then change the North port service
to 31233 for accessing it on the browser.
Earlier, so the part is 31231
and replica set is 31232.
You can see it here.
Now we'll use 31233 for
deployments
and then change all the names to deployment in the sense
like the file names or whatever we see wherever, right?
Instead of replica set change it to deployment
and also change the labels
and select s two, Mya app three, okay.
And then clear the deployment
note port service and then list and test it.
So before going there, let's crosscheck our
APA reference document.
And for deployment also it is app slash v1.
So just if you change the kind from replica set
to deployment, mostly our things should work.
Okay? So let's go to our visual studio court.
And this is the replica sets with
the AML Kube manifest folder.
So let me copy it and then go to 09 deployment
and then paste it, right?
And I'll change the, rename the file to
deployment here, okay?
Instead of replica set,
so that we have it as a deployment reference.
Okay? And for north port service, whatever we are
going to create also I'm going to change it to
deployment. Good.
So now our base setup is done.
So let's go to zero to deployment definition.
And the first thing is APA version,
it matched with our this one, okay?
So we really don't need to change anything here.
Okay? So only thing is kind is going to be deployment
and the name is going to be my app three deployment.
Okay? So now replicas are good
selector is good, and the app -
which is nothing but the selector match labels -
we said that we will change from
my app two to my app three.
So let's change it, okay?
So, and the template, my app three part
I can say this one,
name of the part and the labels,
I can say my app three.
So the most important thing is this one,
the label and the match label, both should match.
And the container name, I can give it as my app three.
And finally we also said
that we'll change the image version.
Okay? So for our difference to see on our browser.
So I'll say three dot zero dot zero.
So this completes the deployment spec update.
So we really didn't add any new tags or anything.
So this is-- like any replica set is a subset of deployment.
So all these things should work as is without anything.
So for deployments we can keep adding more and more stuff,
based on like how the deployment should happen.
And then like it should be in a rolling update fashion,
or it should be in a recreate fashion,
so update strategies with the recreate or rolling updates.
So all those super set options you can keep adding
to your deployment if you want to,
but the base is replica set and then deployment,
more or less, it is going to be the same thing.
Okay, so now let's go to note port service, right?
So this is good and no changes required inside that.
So let's go to note port service
and this is going to be deployment, not port service.
And the selector is going to be my app three, right?
And the note port I'm going to change is 31233.
Okay. So now we have quickly completed creating
the deployment definition and deployment note port service.
So let's go ahead and then create them now.
Okay, so we'll go to 09 deployments
and we'll go to Kube manifest
and I'll say Kube CTL
apply F and F 02 deployment definition.
And if you want to also at the same time
create one more.
So that is nothing but zero three, you can do this way.
Okay? So now two files you have provided
for Kube CTL to create.
So it created my app three deployment
and then deployment note port service.
So I'll say Kube CTL, get deploy,
which is the LES, and it's up and running.
So I'll say Kube CTL get ports.
So I should have three more ports related to my deployment
Got creator.
I should have two replica sets, right,
one for the replica set, whatever we created
and one which a deployment created.
And I'll also see the SVC, okay?
And it has the 31233
which is deployment, note port service.
So, and we'll get the nodes hyphen O wide,
and we'll get the node IP.
And with the
31233, we are going to access it in browser.
Okay? So next one http colon slash slash
31233, okay.
And we see the V3 version of application.
So with ports V1 application,
it's up and running, with
replica sets, V2 application, up and running.
And with ports we have V3 application.
So now we have successfully created the ports,
ports with the-- using the deployment.
And then we have tested it using note port service.
So in our next lecture, we'll focus on services
and there, as we already see note port service effectively,
there we'll see cluster IP service
and also we'll create a frontend and backend application
in services and then understand it in detail
and then test it.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.